Ticket-Templater Documentation

Overview

The Ticket-Templater project is designed to dynamically generate issue templates for different departments (e.g., Tech Services Small, 2nd Line B2B). It features a responsive web interface, real-time summary updates, and organized form sections.

1. Project Structure

Key Files

index.html:

The main interface for the application.

Includes dropdowns for selecting the department, issue type, and priority.

Displays dynamic forms and the generated template output.

scripts.js:

Handles the dynamic behavior of the app.

Manages department selection, template loading, form generation, validation, and summary updates.

small-templates.js:

Contains templates for the Tech Services Small department.

Templates are grouped into sections like Customer Details, Technical Details, etc.

b2b-templates.js:

Contains templates for the 2nd Line B2B department.

Similar structure to small-templates.js.

styles.css:

Defines the styling for the interface, including form layout, summary bar, and responsiveness.

README.md:

Provides an overview of the project’s structure, workflow, and key features.

templates.js (optional):

Example of centralized templates (currently not dynamically loaded).

2. Workflow

1. Department Selection

The user selects a department (e.g., Tech Services Small, 2nd Line B2B).

Corresponding template files (small-templates.js or b2b-templates.js) are dynamically loaded.

2. Dynamic Form Generation

When an Issue Type is selected, the form fields are dynamically generated based on predefined templates.

Fields are grouped into sections like:

Customer Details

Technical Details

Incident Description

Additional Comments

3. Real-Time Summary Updates

As fields are filled, the summary bar updates dynamically to reflect the inputs in the format:

Priority || Customer || Access ID || Issue Type

4. Template Generation

Clicking Generate Template validates the form fields and generates a formatted template grouped by sections.

The output is displayed in the Generated Template section.

3. Key Features

Dynamic Template Loading

Templates are stored in separate files for modularity and easy updates.

The application dynamically loads templates based on the selected department.

Grouped Sections

Form fields are organized into logical sections, improving usability and clarity.

Live Updates

The summary bar reflects user inputs in real-time, eliminating the need for manual updates.

Validation

Ensures all required fields are filled before generating the template.

Debugging Support

Console logs provide insights during development and help troubleshoot issues.

4. Adding New Templates

Steps to Add a New Template

Edit Template Files:

Open small-templates.js or b2b-templates.js.

Add a new entry to the window.issueTemplates object with the following structure:

"New Template Name": [
    { label: "Field Label", type: "input", section: "Customer Details" },
    { label: "Another Field", type: "textarea", section: "Technical Details" }
];

Update the Application:

Ensure the Issue Type dropdown in index.html includes the new template.

Test:

Load the application, select the new template, and verify that the fields are rendered correctly.

5. Improvements Added

1. Modular Structure

Templates are separated by department, making the system scalable and maintainable.

2. Real-Time Updates

Dynamic form fields and summary bar updates enhance user interactivity.

3. Validation

Includes basic validation for required fields and highlights missing inputs.

4. Debugging Support

Console logs assist with identifying and fixing issues during development.

6. Future Enhancements

1. Centralized Templates

Consolidate all templates into a single file or database to simplify management.

2. Export Options

Allow users to export generated templates as .txt or .pdf files.

3. Advanced Validation

Implement regex-based validation for specific fields (e.g., email, MAC address).

4. Admin Interface

Create a GUI for managing templates dynamically without modifying code.

5. Theming Options

Add a customizable theme or color scheme for the interface.

7. Deployment Notes

Static Hosting

The application is compatible with any static hosting service (e.g., GitHub Pages, Netlify).

Ensure all JavaScript and CSS files are correctly linked in index.html.

Version Control

Use Git to track changes and manage updates.

Save snapshots of major versions (e.g., Ticket-Templater-v0.90).

This documentation provides a comprehensive overview of the Ticket-Templater project, ensuring it remains easy to maintain, extend, and deploy. Let me know if you’d like any adjustments or additions!
